Instead of using the Spring Initializr to generate a project,
we can also use the Spring Boot's CLI,
you do not need to use the CLI to work with Spring Boot,
but some developers prefer this over the Spring Initializr.
Since I'm on a Mac, I use the Homebrew package manager to install the CLI.
Let's look at initializing a new project using the
CLI and executing an application.
I've navigated to a terminal window,
and I want to check my version of the Spring Boot CLI before I
get started so I'm up with the latest release.
Okay, you can initialize a new project using the init command,
which lets you create a project by using the Spring
Initializr without leaving this terminal window.
So that would be spring init, and let's call it fundamentals2.
So this is calling out to the Spring Initializr,
and it created a project and it's stored in fundamentals2.
So let's take a look at that.
It generated several files.
Let's just look at the Maven POM file.
This should be familiar to you.
There is the spring‑boot‑starter and the spring‑boot‑starter‑test.
Now in that example, there were no dependencies,
but you could easily include them using the spring init
and passing in the dependencies option.
So here we here we see the dependencies of web and data‑jpa,
and we're calling it fundamentals3.
So there again, it called out to the Spring Initializr.
Let's go to the fundamentals3 folder.
Let's take a look at the POM file,
and notice now it includes the correct dependencies,
the data‑jpa and the web, along with the test.
You can also run applications with the CLI using Groovy scripts.
So the Spring Boot CLI is completely self‑contained so you do
not need any external Groovy installation.
So let's go to the CLI folder.
So I've navigated to the CLI folder.
Let's review the app.groovy script. So it's a very simple application that
creates a RESTful API that's mapped to the default path,
and it returns a string of Hello Pluralsight. So let's see this.
And to run it, all I need to type is run app.groovy. And it is going to
launch the RESTful API. Notice it starts Tomcat on port 8080 so let's test
out the API. We're going to navigate to a web browser,
go to localhost:8080, and we see the result of Hello Pluralsight. That was a look at using the CLI to create a Spring Boot application.